---
title: Experimental study of thermal rectification in suspended monolayer graphene
authors: Haidong Wang, Shiqian Hu, Koji Takahashi, Xing Zhang, Hiroshi Takamatsu, Jie Chen
year: 2017
abstract: Thermal rectification is a fundamental phenomenon for active heat flow control. Significant thermal rectification is expected to exist in the asymmetric nanostructures, such as nanowires and thin films. As a one-atom-thick membrane, graphene has attracted much attention for realizing thermal rectification as shown by many molecular dynamics simulations. Here, we experimentally demonstrate thermal rectification in various asymmetric monolayer graphene nanostructures. A large thermal rectification factor of 26% is achieved in a defect-engineered monolayer graphene with nanopores on one side. A thermal rectification factor of 10% is achieved in a pristine monolayer graphene with nanoparticles deposited on one side or with a tapered width. The results indicate that the monolayer graphene has great potential to be used for designing high-performance thermal rectifiers for heat flow control and energy harvesting.
doi: 10.1038/ncomms15843
---

# Annotations:
1. Signiﬁcant thermal rectiﬁcation is expected to exist in the asymmetric nanostructures, such as nanowires and thin ﬁlms.
2. The results indicate that the monolayer graphene has great potential to be used for designing high-performance thermal rectiﬁers for heat ﬂow control and energy harvesting.
3. Thermal rectiﬁcation is a diode-like behaviour where the heat ﬂux changes asymmetrically as the direction of the temperature gradient is reversed.
4. Due to its wide potential applications in stand-alone thermally driven computing systems3 and efﬁcient thermal energy conservation and storage systems2, extensive attention has been given to this ﬁeld in the past decade.
5. Three asymmetric nanostructures: graphene with nanopores on one side, graphene with nanoparticles deposited on one side and graphene with a tapered width. In the ﬁrst structure, the measured thermal rectiﬁcation factor Z is B26%, while in the other two structures, Z is B10%.
6. The physical mechanism of the thermal rectiﬁcation in bulk materials is that the thermal conductivity be a function of both space and temperature.
7. Similarly, we found that the dependence of the thermal conductivity on temperature and location is also the underlying reason for the thermal rectiﬁcation in the asymmetric defect engineered graphene samples.
8. The suspended monolayer graphene provides an excellent platform for designing two-dimensional thermal rectiﬁers which have potential applications in autonomous heat ﬂow control and efﬁcient energy harvesting.